HeatPumpType.md, before:

## HeatPumpType:

Assuming that bytes from #129 to #138 are the unique for each type of Heat pump:

| Value |  Bytes 129 - 138 | IDU | ODU | KIT | Power [kW] | 1ph/3ph | T-CAP/HP |
| ---| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---|
| 0 | E2 CF 0B 13 33 32 D1 0C 16 33 | Monoblock | Monoblock | WH-MDC05H3E5 | 5 | 1ph | HP |
| 1 | E2 CF 0B 14 33 42 D1 0B 17 33 | Monoblock | Monoblock | WH-MDC07H3E5 | 7 | 1ph | HP |
| 2 | E2 CF 0D 77 09 12 D0 0B 05 11 | WH-SXC09H3E5 | WH-UX09HE5 | WXC09H3E5 | 9 | 1ph | T-CAP |
| 3 | E2 CF 0C 88 05 12 D0 0B 97 05 | WH-SDC09H3E8 | WH-UD09HE8 | WC09H3E8 | 9 | 3ph | HP |
| 4 | E2 CF 0D 85 05 12 D0 0C 94 05 | WH-SXC09H3E8 | WH-UX09HE8 | WXC09H9E8 | 9 | 3ph | T-CAP |
| 5 | E2 CF 0D 86 05 12 D0 0C 95 05 | WH-SXC12H9E8 | WH-UX12HE8 | WXC12H9E8 | 12 | 3ph | T-CAP |
| 6 | E2 CF 0D 87 05 12 D0 0C 96 05 | WH-SXC16H9E8 | WH-UX16HE8 | WXC16H9E8 | 16 | 3ph | T-CAP |
| 7 | E2 CE 0D 71 81 72 CE 0C 92 81 | WH-SDC05H3E5 | WH-UD05HE5 | WC05H3E5  | 5 | 1ph | HP |
| 8 | 62 D2 0B 43 54 42 D2 0B 72 66 | WH-SDC0709J3E5 | WH-UD09JE5 | WC09J3E5  | 9 | 1ph | HP |
| 9 | C2 D3 0B 33 65 B2 D3 0B 94 65 | Monoblock | Monoblock | WH-MDC05J3E5 | 5 | 1ph | HP |
|10 | E2 CF 0B 15 33 42 D1 0B 18 33 | Monoblock | Monoblock | WH-MDC09H3E5 | 9 | 1ph | HP |
|11 | E2 CF 0B 41 34 82 D1 0B 31 35 | Monoblock | Monoblock | WH-MXC09H3E5 | 9 | 1ph | T-CAP |
|12 | 62 D2 0B 45 54 42 D2 0B 47 55 |WH-ADC0309J3E5 | WH-UD09JE5 | ADC09JE5 | 9 | 1ph | HP - All-In-One | 
|13 | E2 CF 0C 74 09 12 D0 0D 95 05 |WH-ADC0916H9E8 | WH-UX12HE8 | | 12 | 3ph | T-CAP |

Byte 132 is taken for Heat Pump model.

Commit message:

Update Finnish readme and add a small note to HeatPumpType.md about pump types not listed in the file.

HeatPumpType.md, after:

## HeatPumpType:

Assuming that bytes from #129 to #138 are the unique for each type of Heat pump:

| Value |  Bytes 129 - 138 | IDU | ODU | KIT | Power [kW] | 1ph/3ph | T-CAP/HP |
| ---| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---|
| 0 | E2 CF 0B 13 33 32 D1 0C 16 33 | Monoblock | Monoblock | WH-MDC05H3E5 | 5 | 1ph | HP |
| 1 | E2 CF 0B 14 33 42 D1 0B 17 33 | Monoblock | Monoblock | WH-MDC07H3E5 | 7 | 1ph | HP |
| 2 | E2 CF 0D 77 09 12 D0 0B 05 11 | WH-SXC09H3E5 | WH-UX09HE5 | WXC09H3E5 | 9 | 1ph | T-CAP |
| 3 | E2 CF 0C 88 05 12 D0 0B 97 05 | WH-SDC09H3E8 | WH-UD09HE8 | WC09H3E8 | 9 | 3ph | HP |
| 4 | E2 CF 0D 85 05 12 D0 0C 94 05 | WH-SXC09H3E8 | WH-UX09HE8 | WXC09H9E8 | 9 | 3ph | T-CAP |
| 5 | E2 CF 0D 86 05 12 D0 0C 95 05 | WH-SXC12H9E8 | WH-UX12HE8 | WXC12H9E8 | 12 | 3ph | T-CAP |
| 6 | E2 CF 0D 87 05 12 D0 0C 96 05 | WH-SXC16H9E8 | WH-UX16HE8 | WXC16H9E8 | 16 | 3ph | T-CAP |
| 7 | E2 CE 0D 71 81 72 CE 0C 92 81 | WH-SDC05H3E5 | WH-UD05HE5 | WC05H3E5  | 5 | 1ph | HP |
| 8 | 62 D2 0B 43 54 42 D2 0B 72 66 | WH-SDC0709J3E5 | WH-UD09JE5 | WC09J3E5  | 9 | 1ph | HP |
| 9 | C2 D3 0B 33 65 B2 D3 0B 94 65 | Monoblock | Monoblock | WH-MDC05J3E5 | 5 | 1ph | HP |
|10 | E2 CF 0B 15 33 42 D1 0B 18 33 | Monoblock | Monoblock | WH-MDC09H3E5 | 9 | 1ph | HP |
|11 | E2 CF 0B 41 34 82 D1 0B 31 35 | Monoblock | Monoblock | WH-MXC09H3E5 | 9 | 1ph | T-CAP |
|12 | 62 D2 0B 45 54 42 D2 0B 47 55 | WH-ADC0309J3E5 | WH-UD09JE5 | ADC09JE5 | 9 | 1ph | HP - All-In-One | 
|13 | E2 CF 0C 74 09 12 D0 0D 95 05 | WH-ADC0916H9E8 | WH-UX12HE8 | | 12 | 3ph | T-CAP |

Byte 132 is taken for Heat Pump model.

Note: These are the heat pump types that users have verified and reported back the model. HeishaMon should work with all H and J generation Aquarea heat pumps.
